# Spatial-temporal-precision-binding
 Experiment #2: Spatial and temporal precision and binding
 
 To test our model by focusing on novel spatiotemporal episodic memory deficits accompanying bilateral MTL lesions.

 Purpose: To test our model by focusing on novel spatiotemporal episodic memory deficits accompanying bilateral MTL lesions.
Design: Patients and healthy controls will watch a video of events occurring within a hallway (Figure E3), with videos lasting about 10 seconds each. Participants view the scene in the video while remaining at a fixed location.  In the first block of testing, which we term the spatiotemporal block, one object will appear at a fixed time point in the hallway.  The object will appear at a randomized location and after a randomized amount of time within the 10 second interval.  Participants will watch three such videos.  They will then be asked to place the object either in space (one third of the trials) or time (one third of the trials of trials) within the video.  On the last third of trials, they will place the object in both space and time to provide an estimate for spatiotemporal placement for a single object.  They will do this by moving back and forward within the video frame and stopping at the location to place it either in space, time, or both.  
  In the second block of testing, which we term the object-space-time binding block, participants will see videos with three objects occurring at different times and places, all in the same video.  During retrieval, the objects will be removed from the video and participants will again need to scroll through the video and place each object.  All three objects will be present at the top of the computer screen and participants will thus decide which object to place where and at what time point during the video (Figure E3).  By scrolling through the video, as before, on different thirds of trials, participants will 1) place all objects in space 2) place all objects in time 3) place all objects in both space and time. 

Anticipated results: We expect that patients will show greater deficits in both spatial and temporal precision than controls, which will increase dramatically for 3 items vs. 1. This is because now all three items must be bound to each other and also in both space and time compared to single object/spatiotemporal binding.  This predicts a 3-way group by condition by number of objects interaction effect.  Specifically, both groups will perform worse at remembering the three items compared to one item but this will be more pronounced for the patients for remembering the three objects correctly in space and time compared to one object or any of these separately.

Alternative directions: Temporal compared to spatial precision may be more difficult for all participants, suggested in one report [107]; behavioral piloting can help match for difficulty across conditions.

